developer/build-from-source.md, before:

# Building Ascendara from Source

## Prerequisites

Before building Ascendara, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js**
  - Version 18 or higher recommended
  - Required for JavaScript runtime
- **Windows Build Tools**
  - Visual Studio Build Tools with Windows SDK
  - Required for native dependencies (diskusage and electron-related builds)

While not required, the following tools can make the development experience easier:

- **Git**: Optional - You can either clone the repository or simply download the files directly from GitHub
- **Python 3.x**: Optional - Provides automated build scripts to simplify the development process, but all steps can be performed manually

## Important Limitations

When running from source, Ascendara will run in Development Mode. Please be aware of the following limitations
while in Development Mode, or while using a public build:

- **API Features**:
  - Feature reporting
  - Game reporting
  - Download reporting
- **Analytics Service**: The analytics service will be completely non-functional in the public version
- **Game Execution**: You will not be able to run games in development mode

These limitations exist to protect Ascendara's infrastructure from potential abuse. The reporting and analytics services are essential for monitoring health, detecting issues, and ensuring Ascendara stays secure. For these reasons, these features are restricted to official builds only. You can still run games off the public version of Ascendara you just have to be running the built version. Thank you for your understanding.

## Getting the Source Code
   > **Note:** You may use any compatible package manager such as `npm`, `yarn`, `deno`, etc.

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ascendara/Ascendara.git
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn
```

3. Set up Python environment and install dependencies:

> **Note:** It is recommended to use Python's `venv` feature to isolate your development environment from the base Python installation. Ensure you have Python version 3.5 or higher installed.

To create a virtual environment, run:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

If you are using PowerShell, you may need to set the execution policy for the current user before activating the virtual environment. Use the following command:

```ps1
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
```

Activate the virtual environment:

```cmd
.venv\Scripts\activate
```

Once activated, install the required Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Development Preview

To preview the application in development mode:

1. Open the project directory in Visual Studio Code or a terminal.
2. In `electron/app.js`, ensure the `isDev` variable is set to `true`.
3. Start the development server:

```bash
npm run start
# or
yarn start
```

This command will concurrently run both Electron and Vite, providing a live development environment.

## Building the Application

### Automatic Build (Recommended)

The easiest way to build Ascendara into an executable is by using the distribution command:

```bash
yarn dist
# or
npm run dist
```

This process will package the application and generate the executable files.

This will:

1. Execute the build process via execute.py
2. Build the React app
3. Build the Electron app
4. Output files to the `dist/` directory

### Manual Build Process

If you need more control, you can build manually:

1. Build the React app:

```bash
yarn build
# or
npm run build
```

2. After building, the React app will be in the "build" directory:

   - Modify "index.html" to use relative paths by replacing "/assets/" with "assets/"
   - Copy "index.html" to the "electron" directory
   - Copy the "assets" directory to the "electron" directory
   - Copy any other required assets (guide directory, icon.png, etc.) to the "electron" directory

3. Modify "electron/app.js" to:

   - Make sure isDev = false at the top of the file
   - Ensure it's configured to load the index.html from the correct location:
     `mainWindow.loadURL('file://' + path.join(__dirname, 'index.html'))`

4. Build the Electron app:

```bash
yarn buildwithelectron
# or
npm run buildwithelectron
```

5. Clean up temporary files:
   - Remove the "build" directory
   - Remove the copied files from the "electron" directory (index.html, assets, guide, etc.)

Your compiled executable will be available in the "dist/win-unpacked" directory.

Commit message:

clarify supported pm for build script

developer/build-from-source.md, after:

# Building Ascendara from Source

## Prerequisites

Before building Ascendara, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js**
  - Version 18 or higher recommended
  - Required for JavaScript runtime
- **Windows Build Tools**
  - Visual Studio Build Tools with Windows SDK
  - Required for native dependencies (diskusage and electron-related builds)

While not required, the following tools can make the development experience easier:

- **Git**: Optional - You can either clone the repository or simply download the files directly from GitHub
- **Python 3.x**: Optional - Provides automated build scripts to simplify the development process, but all steps can be performed manually

## Important Limitations

When running from source, Ascendara will run in Development Mode. Please be aware of the following limitations
while in Development Mode, or while using a public build:

- **API Features**:
  - Feature reporting
  - Game reporting
  - Download reporting
- **Analytics Service**: The analytics service will be completely non-functional in the public version
- **Game Execution**: You will not be able to run games in development mode

These limitations exist to protect Ascendara's infrastructure from potential abuse. The reporting and analytics services are essential for monitoring health, detecting issues, and ensuring Ascendara stays secure. For these reasons, these features are restricted to official builds only. You can still run games off the public version of Ascendara you just have to be running the built version. Thank you for your understanding.

## Getting the Source Code
   > **Note:** You may use any compatible package manager such as `npm`, `yarn`, `deno`, etc.

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ascendara/Ascendara.git
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn
```

3. Set up Python environment and install dependencies:

> **Note:** It is recommended to use Python's `venv` feature to isolate your development environment from the base Python installation. Ensure you have Python version 3.5 or higher installed.

To create a virtual environment, run:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

If you are using PowerShell, you may need to set the execution policy for the current user before activating the virtual environment. Use the following command:

```ps1
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
```

Activate the virtual environment:

```cmd
.venv\Scripts\activate
```

Once activated, install the required Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Development Preview

To preview the application in development mode:

1. Open the project directory in Visual Studio Code or a terminal.
2. In `electron/app.js`, ensure the `isDev` variable is set to `true`.
3. Start the development server:

```bash
npm run start
# or
yarn start
```

This command will concurrently run both Electron and Vite, providing a live development environment.

## Building the Application

### Automatic Build (Recommended)

The automatic build script provided in the repository supports the following package managers:

- npm
- yarn
- pnpm
- bun

If you are using a different package manager, you can use the [manual build process](#manual-build-process) below.

```bash
yarn dist
# or
npm run dist
```

This script will automatically build the react app, then electron app and then move all contents to the `dist/` directory before deleting the `build/` directory and other temporary files.

### Manual Build Process

If you need more control, you can build manually:

1. Build the React app:

```bash
yarn build
# or
npm run build
```

2. After building, the React app will be in the "build" directory:

   - Modify "index.html" to use relative paths by replacing "/assets/" with "assets/"
   - Copy "index.html" to the "electron" directory
   - Copy the "assets" directory to the "electron" directory
   - Copy any other required assets (guide directory, icon.png, etc.) to the "electron" directory

3. Modify "electron/app.js" to:

   - Make sure isDev = false at the top of the file
   - Ensure it's configured to load the index.html from the correct location:
     `mainWindow.loadURL('file://' + path.join(__dirname, 'index.html'))`

4. Build the Electron app:

```bash
yarn buildwithelectron
# or
npm run buildwithelectron
```

5. Clean up temporary files:
   - Remove the "build" directory
   - Remove the copied files from the "electron" directory (index.html, assets, guide, etc.)

Your compiled executable will be available in the "dist/win-unpacked" directory.
